# Containers and Resources
:index-group: Configuration
:jbake-date: 2018-12-05
:jbake-type: page
:jbake-status: published


....
          <p><a name="ContainersandResources-containers"></a></p>
....

CMP_ENTITY

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Declarable in properties via

Foo = new://Container?type=CMP_ENTITY

Supports the following properties

Property Name

Description

CmpEngineFactory

Default value is org.apache.openejb.core.cmp.jpa.JpaCmpEngineFactory.

TransactionManager

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Supports the following properties

Property Name

Description

defaultTransactionTimeoutSeconds

Default value is 10 minutes.

BMP_ENTITY

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Declarable in properties via

Foo = new://Container?type=BMP_ENTITY

Supports the following properties

Property Name

Description

PoolSize

Specifies the size of the bean pools for this bmp entity container.
Default value is 10.

STATELESS

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Declarable in properties via

Foo = new://Container?type=STATELESS

Supports the following properties

Property Name

Description

TimeOut

Specifies the time to wait between invocations. This value is measured
in milliseconds. A value of 5 would result in a time-out of 5
milliseconds between invocations. A value of zero would mean no timeout.
Default value is 0.

PoolSize

Specifies the size of the bean pools for this stateless SessionBean
container. Default value is 10.

StrictPooling

StrictPooling tells the container what to do when the pool reaches it's
maximum size and there are incoming requests that need instances. With
strict pooling, requests will have to wait for instances to become
available. The pool size will never grow beyond the the set PoolSize
value. Without strict pooling, the container will create temporary
instances to meet demand. The instances will last for just one method
invocation and then are removed. Default value is true.

STATEFUL

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Declarable in properties via

Foo = new://Container?type=STATEFUL

Supports the following properties

Property Name

Description

Passivator

The passivator is responsible for writing beans to disk at passivation
time. Different passivators can be used by setting this property to the
fully qualified class name of the PassivationStrategy implementation.
The passivator is not responsible for invoking any callbacks or other
processing, its only responsibly is to write the bean state to disk.
Known implementations: org.apache.openejb.core.stateful.RAFPassivater
org.apache.openejb.core.stateful.SimplePassivater Default value is
org.apache.openejb.core.stateful.SimplePassivater.

TimeOut

Specifies the time to wait between invocations. This value is measured
in minutes. A value of 5 would result in a time-out of 5 minutes between
invocations. A value of zero would mean no timeout. Default value is 20.

PoolSize

Specifies the size of the bean pools for this stateful SessionBean
container. Default value is 1000.

BulkPassivate

Property name that specifies the number of instances to passivate at one
time when doing bulk passivation. Default value is 100.

MESSAGE

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Declarable in properties via

Foo = new://Container?type=MESSAGE

Supports the following properties

Property Name

Description

ResourceAdapter

The resource adapter delivers messages to the container Default value is
Default JMS Resource Adapter.

MessageListenerInterface

Specifies the message listener interface handled by this container
Default value is javax.jms.MessageListener.

ActivationSpecClass

Specifies the activation spec class Default value is
org.apache.activemq.ra.ActiveMQActivationSpec.

InstanceLimit

Specifies the maximum number of bean instances that are allowed to exist
for each MDB deployment. Default value is 10.

Resources

javax.sql.DataSource

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Declarable in properties via

Foo = new://Resource?type=javax.sql.DataSource

Supports the following properties

Property Name

Description

JtaManaged

Determines wether or not this data source should be JTA managed or user
managed.  If set to 'true' it will automatically be enrolled in any
ongoing transactions.  Calling begin/commit/rollback or setAutoCommit on
the datasource or connection will not be allowed.  If you need to
perform these functions yourself, set JtaManaged to 'false' In terms of
JPA persistence.xml: "JtaManaged=true" can be used as a
'jta-data-source' "JtaManaged=false" can be used as a
'non-jta-data-source' Default value is true.

JdbcDriver

Driver class name Default value is org.hsqldb.jdbcDriver.

JdbcUrl

Url for creating connections Default value is
jdbc:hsqldb:file:data/hsqldb/hsqldb.

UserName

Default user name Default value is sa.

Password

Default password

ConnectionProperties

The connection properties that will be sent to the JDBC driver when
establishing new connections Format of the string must be
[propertyName=property;]* NOTE - The "user" and "password" properties
will be passed explicitly, so they do not need to be included here.

DefaultAutoCommit

The default auto-commit state of new connections Default value is true.

DefaultReadOnly

The default read-only state of new connections If not set then the
setReadOnly method will not be called. (Some drivers don't support read
only mode, ex: Informix)

DefaultTransactionIsolation

The default TransactionIsolation state of new connections If not set
then the setTransactionIsolation method will not be called. The allowed
values for this property are:     NONE     READ_COMMITTED    
READ_UNCOMMITTED     REPEATABLE_READ     SERIALIZABLE Note: Most JDBC
drivers do not support all isolation levels

InitialSize

The initial number of connections that are created when the pool is
started Default value is 0.

MaxActive

The maximum number of active connections that can be allocated from this
pool at the same time, or a negative number for no limit. Default value
is 20.

MaxIdle

The maximum number of connections that can remain idle in the pool,
without extra ones being released, or a negative number for no limit.
Default value is 20.

MinIdle

The minimum number of connections that can remain idle in the pool,
without extra ones being created, or zero to create none. Default value
is 0.

MaxWait

The maximum number of milliseconds that the pool will wait (when there
are no available connections) for a connection to be returned before
throwing an exception, or -1 to wait indefinitely. Default value is -1.

ValidationQuery

The SQL query that will be used to validate connections from this pool
before returning them to the caller. If specified, this query MUST be an
SQL SELECT statement that returns at least one row.

TestOnBorrow

If true connections will be validated before being borrowed from the
pool. If the validation fails, the connection is destroyed, and a new
conection will be retrieved from the pool (and validated). NOTE - for a
true value to have any effect, the ValidationQuery parameter must be
set. Default value is true.

TestOnReturn

If true connections will be validated before being returned to the
pool.  If the validation fails, the connection is destroyed instead of
being returned to the pool. NOTE - for a true value to have any effect,
the ValidationQuery parameter must be set. Default value is false.

TestWhileIdle

If true connections will be validated by the idle connection evictor (if
any). If the validation fails, the connection is destroyed and removed
from the pool NOTE - for a true value to have any effect, the
timeBetweenEvictionRunsMillis property must be a positive number and the
ValidationQuery parameter must be set. Default value is false.

TimeBetweenEvictionRunsMillis

The number of milliseconds to sleep between runs of the idle connection
evictor thread. When set to a negative number, no idle connection
evictor thread will be run. Default value is -1.

NumTestsPerEvictionRun

The number of connectionss to examine during each run of the idle
connection evictor thread (if any). Default value is 3.

MinEvictableIdleTimeMillis

The minimum amount of time a connection may sit idle in the pool before
it is eligable for eviction by the idle connection evictor (if any).
Default value is 1800000.

PoolPreparedStatements

If true, a statement pool is created for each Connection and
PreparedStatements created by one of the following methods are
pooled:    public PreparedStatement prepareStatement(String
sql);    public PreparedStatement prepareStatement(String
sql,            int resultSetType,            int resultSetConcurrency)
Default value is false.

MaxOpenPreparedStatements

The maximum number of open statements that can be allocated from the
statement pool at the same time, or zero for no limit. NOTE - Some
drivers have limits on the number of open statements, so make sure there
are some resources left for the other (non-prepared) statements. Default
value is 0.

AccessToUnderlyingConnectionAllowed

If true the raw physical connection to the database can be accessed
using the following construct:     Connection conn =
ds.getConnection();     Connection rawConn = ((DelegatingConnection)
conn).getInnermostDelegate();     ...     conn.close() Default is false,
because misbehaving programs can do harmfull things to the raw
connection shuch as closing the raw connection or continuing to use the
raw connection after it has been assigned to another logical
connection.  Be carefull and only use when you need direct access to
driver specific extentions. NOTE: Do NOT close the underlying
connection, only the original logical connection wrapper. Default value
is false.

ActiveMQResourceAdapter

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Declarable in properties via

Foo = new://Resource?type=ActiveMQResourceAdapter

Supports the following properties

Property Name

Description

BrokerXmlConfig

Broker configuration Default value is
broker:(tcp://localhost:61616)?useJmx=false.

ServerUrl

Broker address Default value is vm://localhost?async=true.

DataSource

DataSource for persistence messages Default value is Default Unmanaged
JDBC Database.

javax.jms.ConnectionFactory

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Declarable in properties via

Foo = new://Resource?type=javax.jms.ConnectionFactory

Supports the following properties

Property Name

Description

ResourceAdapter

Default value is Default JMS Resource Adapter.

TransactionSupport

Specifies if the connection is enrolled in global transaction allowed
values: xa, local or none Default value is xa.

PoolMaxSize

Maximum number of physical connection to the ActiveMQ broker Default
value is 10.

PoolMinSize

Minimum number of physical connection to the ActiveMQ broker Default
value is 0.

ConnectionMaxWaitMilliseconds

Maximum amount of time to wait for a connection Default value is 5000.

ConnectionMaxIdleMinutes

Maximum amount of time a connection can be idle before being reclaimed
Default value is 15.

javax.jms.Queue

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Declarable in properties via

Foo = new://Resource?type=javax.jms.Queue

Supports the following properties

Property Name

Description

destination

Specifies the name of the queue

javax.jms.Topic

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Declarable in properties via

Foo = new://Resource?type=javax.jms.Topic

Supports the following properties

Property Name

Description

destination

Specifies the name of the topic

org.omg.CORBA.ORB

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Declarable in properties via

Foo = new://Resource?type=org.omg.CORBA.ORB

No properties.

javax.mail.Session

Declarable in tomee.xml via

Declarable in properties via

Foo = new://Resource?type=javax.mail.Session

No properties.
