# JNDI Names
:index-group: Configuration
:jbake-date: 2018-12-05
:jbake-type: page
:jbake-status: published


# What's My Bean's JNDI Name? There are two things to keep in mind
before you start reading:

1 OpenEJB provides a default JNDI name to your EJB. +
2 You can customize the JNDI name.

== Default JNDI name The default JNDI name is in the following format:

....
{deploymentId}{interfaceType.annotationName}
....

Lets try and understand the above format. Both _deploymentId_ and
_interfaceType.annotationName_ are pre-defined variables. There are
other pre-defined variables available which you could use to customize
the JNDI name format.

# JNDI Name Formatting

The _openejb.jndiname.format_ property allows you to supply a template
for the global JNDI names of all your EJBs. With it, you have complete
control over the structure of the JNDI layout can institute a design
pattern just right for your client apps. See the
link:service-locator.html[Service Locator] doc for clever ways to use
the JNDI name formatting functionality in client code.

variable

description

moduleId

Typically the name of the ejb-jar file or the id value if specified

ejbType

STATEFUL, STATELESS, BMP_ENTITY, CMP_ENTITY, or MESSAGE_DRIVEN

ejbClass

for a class named org.acme.superfun.WidgetBean results in
org.acme.superfun.WidgetBean

ejbClass.simpleName

for a class named org.acme.superfun.WidgetBean results in WidgetBean

ejbClass.packageName

for a class named org.acme.superfun.WidgetBean results in
org.acme.superfun

ejbName

The ejb-name as specified in xml or via the 'name' attribute in an
@Stateful, @Stateless, or @MessageDriven annotation

deploymentId

The unique system id for the ejb. Typically the ejbName unless specified
in the openejb-jar.xml or via changing the openejb.deploymentId.format

interfaceType

see interfaceType.annotationName

interfaceType.annotationName

Following the EJB 3 annotations @RemoteHome, @LocalHome, @Remote and
@Local RemoteHome (EJB 2 EJBHome) LocalHome (EJB 2 EJBLocalHome) Remote
(EJB 3 Business Remote) Local (EJB 3 Business Local) Endpoint (EJB
webservice endpoint)

interfaceType.annotationNameLC

This is the same as interfaceType.annotationName, but all in lower case.

interfaceType.xmlName

Following the ejb-jar.xml descriptor elements , , , , and : home (EJB 2
EJBHome) local-home (EJB 2 EJBLocalHome) business-remote (EJB 3 Business
Remote) business-local (EJB 3 Business Local) service-endpoint (EJB
webservice endpoint)

interfaceType.xmlNameCc

Camel-case version of interfaceType.xmlName: Home (EJB 2 EJBHome)
LocalHome (EJB 2 EJBLocalHome) BusinessRemote (EJB 3 Business Remote)
BusinessLocal (EJB 3 Business Local) ServiceEndpoint (EJB webservice
endpoint)

interfaceType.openejbLegacyName

Following the OpenEJB 1.0 hard-coded format: (empty string) (EJB 2
EJBHome) Local (EJB 2 EJBLocalHome) BusinessRemote (EJB 3 Business
Remote) BusinessLocal (EJB 3 Business Local) ServiceEndpoint (EJB
webservice endpoint)

interfaceClass

(business) for a class named org.acme.superfun.WidgetRemote results in
org.acme.superfun.WidgetRemote (home) for a class named
org.acme.superfun.WidgetHome results in org.acme.superfun.WidgetHome

interfaceClass.simpleName

(business) for a class named org.acme.superfun.WidgetRemote results in
WidgetRemote (home) for a class named org.acme.superfun.WidgetHome
results in WidgetHome

interfaceClass.packageName

for a class named org.acme.superfun.WidgetRemote results in
org.acme.superfun

# Setting the JNDI name

It's possible to set the desired jndi name format for the whole server
level, an ejb-jar, an ejb, an ejb's "local" interface
(local/remote/local-home/home), and for an individual interface the ejb
implements. More specific jndi name formats act as an override to any
more general formats. The most specific format dictates the jndi name
that will be used for any given interface of an ejb. It's possible to
specify a general format for your server, override it at an ejb level
and override that further for a specific interface of that ejb.

== Via System property

The jndi name format can be set on a server level via a _system
property_, for example:

....
$ ./bin/openejb start
-Dopenejb.jndiname.format=\{ejbName}/\{interfaceClass}"
....

As usual, other ways of specifying system properties are via the
conf/system.properties file in a standalone server, or via the
InitialContext properties when embedded.

== Via properties in the openejb-jar.xml

It's possible to set the openejb.jndiname.format for an ejb-jar jar in a
META-INF/openejb-jar.xml file as follows:

....
<openejb-jar>
  <properties>
     openejb.deploymentId.format = {ejbName}
     openejb.jndiname.format = {deploymentId}{interfaceType.annotationName}
  </properties>
</openejb-jar>
....

== Via the tag for a specific ejb

The following sets the name specifically for the interface
org.superbiz.Foo.

....
<openejb-jar>
  <ejb-deployment ejb-name="FooBean">
    <jndi name="foo" interface="org.superbiz.Foo"/>  
  </ejb-deployment>
</openejb-jar>
....

Or more generally...

....
<openejb-jar>
  <ejb-deployment ejb-name="FooBean">
    <jndi name="foo" interface="Remote"/> 
  </ejb-deployment>
</openejb-jar>
....

Or more generally still...

....
<openejb-jar>
  <ejb-deployment ejb-name="FooBean">
    <jndi name="foo"/> 
  </ejb-deployment>
</openejb-jar>
....

The 'name' attribute can still use templates if it likes, such as:

....
<openejb-jar>
  <ejb-deployment ejb-name="FooBean">
    <jndi name="ejb/{interfaceClass.simpleName}" interface="org.superbiz.Foo"/> 
  </ejb-deployment>
</openejb-jar>
....

=== Multiple tags

Multiple tags are allowed making it possible for you to be as specific
as you need about the jndi name of each interface or each logical group
of iterfaces (Local, Remote, LocalHome, RemoteHome).

Given an ejb, FooBean, with the following interfaces: - business-local:
org.superbiz.LocalOne - business-local: org.superbiz.LocalTwo -
business-remote: org.superbiz.RemoteOne - business-remote:
org.superbiz.RemoteTwo - home: org.superbiz.FooHome - local-home:
org.superbiz.FooLocalHome

The following four examples would yield the same jndi names. The
intention with these examples is to show the various ways you can
isolate specific interfaces or types of interfaces to gain more specific
control on how they are named.

....
<openejb-jar>
  <ejb-deployment ejb-name="FooBean">
    <jndi name="LocalOne" interface="org.superbiz.LocalOne"/>
    <jndi name="LocalTwo" interface="org.superbiz.LocalTwo"/>
    <jndi name="RemoteOne" interface="org.superbiz.RemoteOne"/>
    <jndi name="RemoteTwo" interface="org.superbiz.RemoteTwo"/>
    <jndi name="FooHome" interface="org.superbiz.FooHome"/>
    <jndi name="FooLocalHome" interface="org.superbiz.FooLocalHome"/>
  </ejb-deployment>
</openejb-jar>
....

Or

....
<openejb-jar>
  <ejb-deployment ejb-name="FooBean">
    <!-- applies to LocalOne and LocalTwo -->
    <jndi name="{interfaceClass.simpleName}" interface="Local"/> 

    <!-- applies to RemoteOne and RemoteTwo -->
    <jndi name="{interfaceClass.simpleName}" interface="Remote"/> 

    <!-- applies to FooHome -->
    <jndi name="{interfaceClass.simpleName}" interface="RemoteHome"/> 

    <!-- applies to FooLocalHome -->
    <jndi name="{interfaceClass.simpleName}" interface="LocalHome"/> 
  </ejb-deployment>
</openejb-jar>
....

Or

....
<openejb-jar>
  <ejb-deployment ejb-name="FooBean">
    <!-- applies to RemoteOne, RemoteTwo, FooHome, and FooLocalHome -->
    <jndi name="{interfaceClass.simpleName}"/>

    <!-- these two would count as an override on the above format -->
    <jndi name="LocalOne" interface="org.superbiz.LocalOne"/>
    <jndi name="LocalTwo" interface="org.superbiz.LocalTwo"/>
  </ejb-deployment>
</openejb-jar>
....

or

....
<openejb-jar>
  <ejb-deployment ejb-name="FooBean">
    <!-- applies to LocalOne, LocalTwo, RemoteOne, RemoteTwo, FooHome, and FooLocalHome -->
    <jndi name="{interfaceClass.simpleName}"/> 
  </ejb-deployment>
</openejb-jar>
....

# Changing the Default Setting

_You are responsible for ensuring the names don't conflict._

=== Conservative settings

A very conservative setting such as

"\{deploymentId}/\{interfaceClass}"

would guarantee that each and every single interface is bound to JNDI.
If your bean had a legacy EJBObject interface, three business remote
interfaces, and two business local interfaces, this pattern would result
in +
_six_ proxies bound into JNDI. +

Bordeline optimistic: +

The above two settings would work if you the interface wasn't shared by
other beans.

=== Pragmatic settings

A more middle ground setting such as
"\{deploymentId}/\{interfaceType.annotationName}" would guarantee that
at least one proxy of each interface type is bound to JNDI. If your bean
had a legacy EJBObject interface, three business remote interfaces, and
two business local interfaces, this pattern would result in _three_
proxies bound into JNDI: one proxy dedicated to your EJBObject
interface; one proxy implementing all three business remote interfaces;
one proxy implementing the two business local interfaces.

Similarly pragmatic settings would be +

=== Optimistic settings

A very optimistic setting such as "\{deploymentId}" would guarantee only
one proxy for the bean will be bound to JNDI. This would be fine if you
knew you only had one type of interface in your beans. For example, only
business remote interfaces, or only business local interfaces, or only
an EJBObject interface, or only an EJBLocalObject interface.

If a bean in the app did have more than one interface type, one business
local and one business remote for example, by default OpenEJB will
reject the app when it detects that it cannot bind the second interface.
This strict behavior can be disabled by setting the
_openejb.jndiname.failoncollision_ system property to _false_. When this
property is set to false, we will simply log an error that the second
proxy cannot be bound to JNDI, tell you which ejb is using that name,
and continue loading your app.

Similarly optimistic settings would be: +

=== Advanced Details on EJB 3.0 Business Proxies (the simple part)

If you implement your business interfaces, your life is simple as your
proxies will also implement your business interfaces of the same type.
Meaning any proxy OpenEJB creates for a business local interface will
also implement your other business local interfaces. Similarly, any
proxy OpenEJB creates for a business remote interface will also
implement your other business remote interfaces.

=== Advanced Details on EJB 3.0 Business Proxies (the complicated part)

_Who should read?_ +
Read this section of either of these two apply to you: +
- You do not implement your business interfaces in your bean class +
- One or more of your business remote interfaces extend from
javax.rmi.Remote

If neither of these two items describe your apps, then there is no need
to read further. Go have fun.

=== Not implementing business interfaces

If you do not implement your business interfaces it may not be possible
for us to implement all your business interfaces in a single interface.
Conflicts in the throws clauses and the return values can occur as
detailed link:multiple-business-interface-hazzards.html[here] . When
creating a proxy for an interface we will detect and remove any other
business interfaces that would conflict with the main interface.

=== Business interfaces extending javax.rmi.Remote

Per spec rules many runtime exceptions (container or connection related)
are thrown from javax.rmi.Remote proxies as java.rmi.RemoteException
which is not a runtime exception and must be throwable via the proxy as
a checked exception. The issue is that conflicting throws clauses are
actually removed for two interfaces sharing the same method signature.
For example two methods such as these: +
- InterfaceA: void doIt() throws Foo; +
- InterfaceB: void doIt() throws RemoteException;

can be implemented by trimming out the conflicting throws clauses as
follows: +
- Implementation: void doIt()\{}

This is fine for a bean class as it does not need to throw the RMI
required javax.rmi.RemoteException. However if we create a proxy from
these two interfaces it will also wind up with a 'doIt()\{}' method that
cannot throw javax.rmi.RemoteException. This is very bad as the
container does need to throw RemoteException to any business interfaces
extending java.rmi.Remote for any container related issues or connection
issues. If the container attempts to throw a RemoteException from the
proxies 'doIt()\{}' method, it will result in an
UndeclaredThrowableException thrown by the VM.

The only way to guarantee the proxy has the 'doIt() throws
RemoteException \{}' method of InterfaceB is to cut out InterfaceA when
we create the proxy dedicated to InterfaceB.
