# JPA Usage
:index-group: JPA
:jbake-date: 2018-12-05
:jbake-type: page
:jbake-status: published

# Things to watch out for

== Critical: Always set jta-data-source and non-jta-data-source

Always set the value of jta-data-source and non-jta-data-source in your
persistence.xml file. Regardless if targeting your EntityManager usage
for transaction-type="RESOURCE_LOCAL" or transaction-type="TRANSACTION",
it's very difficult to guarantee one or the other will be the only one
needed. Often times the JPA Provider itself will require both internally
to do various optimizations or other special features.

* The _jta-data-source_ should always have it's OpenEJB-specific
'_JtaManaged_' property set to '_true_' (this is the default)
* The _non-jta-data-source_ should always have it's OpenEJB-specific
'_JtaManaged_' property set to '_false_'.

See link:containers-and-resources.html[Containers and Resources] for how
to configure 'JtaManaged' and a full list of properties for DataSources.

== Be detach aware

A warning for any new JPA user is by default all objects will detach at
the end of a transaction. People typically discover this when the go to
remove or update an object they fetched previously and get an exception
like "You cannot perform operation delete on detached object".

All ejb methods start a transaction unless a) you
link:transaction-annotations.html[configure them otherwise] , or b) the
caller already has a transaction in progress when it calls the bean. If
you're in a test case or a servlet, it's most likely B that is biting
you. You're asking an ejb for some persistent objects, it uses the
EntityManager in the scope of the transaction started around it's method
and returns some persistent objects, by the time you get them the
transaction has completed and now the objects are detached.

=== Solutions 1. Call EntityManager.merge(..) inside the bean code to
reattach your object. 1. Use PersistenceContextType.EXTENDED as in
'@PersistenceContext(unitName = "movie-unit", type =
PersistenceContextType.EXTENDED)' for EntityManager refs instead of the
default of PersistenceContextType.TRANSACTION. 1. If testing, use a
technique to execute transactions in your test code. That's described
here in link:unit-testing-transactions.html[Unit testing transactions]
