# Security 
:index-group: Configuration
:jbake-date: 2018-12-05
:jbake-type: page
:jbake-status: published

# Security - How To.

We currently have two authentication mechanisms to choose from: *
_PropertiesLoginModule_ (a basic text file based login that looks up
users and groups from the specified properties files) * _SQLLoginModule_
(database based login that looks up users and groups in a database
through SQL queries)

To make your program authenticate itself to the server, simply construct
your InitialContext with the standard javax.naming.Context properties
for user/pass info, which is:

....
Properties props = new Properties();
props.setProperty(Context.INITIAL_CONTEXT_FACTORY, "org.apache.openejb.client.RemoteInitialContextFactory");
props.setProperty(Context.PROVIDER_URL, "ejbd://localhost:4201");
props.setProperty(Context.SECURITY_PRINCIPAL, "someuser");
props.setProperty(Context.SECURITY_CREDENTIALS, "thepass");
props.setProperty("openejb.authentication.realmName", "PropertiesLogin");
// optional
InitialContext ctx = new InitialContext(props);
ctx.lookup(...);
....

That will get you logged in and all your calls from that context should
execute as you.

_$\{openejb.base}/conf/login.config_ is a standard JAAS config file.
Here, you can configure any number of security realms to authenticate
against. To specify which of the realms you want to authenticate
against, you can set the _openejb.authentication.realmName_ property to
any of the configured realm names in _login.config_. If you don't
speficy a realm name, the default (currently _PropertiesLogin_) is used.
For examples and more information on JAAS configuration, see the
http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/security/jaas/JAASRefGuide.html[JAAS
Reference Guide] .

== PropertiesLoginModule

Supported options:

Option

Description

Required

UsersFile

name of the properties file that contains the users and their passwords

_yes_

GroupsFile

name of the properties file that contains the groups and their member
lists

_yes_

_UsersFile_ and _GroupsFile_ are read in on every login, so +you can
update them+ on a running system and those users will "show up"
immediately +without the need for a restart+ of any kind.

== SQLLoginModule

You can either use a data source or configure the JDBC URL through which
the user/group lookups will be made.

If you use a _DataSource_, you must specify its JNDI name with the
_dataSourceName_ option.

If you use JDBC directly, you have to specify at least the JDBC URL of
the database. The driver should be autodetected (provided the
appropriate jar is on your classpath), but if that fails for some
reason, you can force a specific driver using the _jdbcDriver_ option.
For more information on JDBC URLs, see the
http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/jdbc/[JDBC Guide]

The _userSelect_ query must return a two-column list of user names
(column 1) and passwords (column 2). This query should normally return a
single row, which can be achieved by the use of a query parameter
placeholder "?". Any such placeholders in both queries will be filled in
with the username that the client is trying to log in with. The
_groupSelect_ query must return a two-column list of user names and
their groups (or "roles" in the EJB world).

Supported options:

Option

Description

Required

dataSourceName

the name of a data source

_yes_ (alternative 1)

jdbcURL

a standard JDBC URL

_yes_ (alternative 2)

jdbcDriver

the fully qualified class name of the database driver

no

jdbcUser

the user name for accessing the database

no

jdbcPassword

the password for accessing the database

no

userSelect

the SQL query that returns a list of users and their passwords

_yes_

groupSelect

the SQL query that returns a list of users and groups (roles)

_yes_

digest

the name of the digest algorithm (e.g. "MD5" or "SHA") for digest
authentication

no

encoding

the digest encoding, can be "hex" or "base64"

no

# PLUG POINTS

There are four-five different plug points where you could customize the
functionality. From largest to smallest: - _The SecurityService
interface_: As before all security work (authentication and
authorization) is behind this interface, only the methods on it have
been updated. If you want to do something really "out there" or need
total control, this is where you go. Plugging in your own
SecurityService should really be a last resort. We still have our "do
nothing" SecurityService implementation just as before, but it is no
longer the default. +You can add a new SecurityService impl by creating
a service-jar.xml and packing it in your jar+. You can configure OpenEJB
to use a different SecurityService via the openejb.xml.

* _JaccProvider super class_: If you want to plug in your own JACC
implementation to perform custom authorization (maybe do some fancy
auditing), this is one way to do it without really having to understand
JACC too much. We will plug your provider in to all the places required
by JACC if you simply +set the system property+
"_org.apache.openejb.core.security.JaccProvider_" with the name of your
JaccProvider impl.
* _Regular JACC_. The JaccProvider is simply a wrapper around the many
things you have to do to create and plugin a JACC provider, but you can
still plugin a JACC provider in the standard ways. Read the JACC spec
for that info.
* _JAAS LoginModule_. You can setup a different JAAS LoginModule to do
all your authentication by simply editing the conf/login.config file
which is a plain JAAS config file. At the moment we only support
username/password based login modules. At some point it would be nice to
support any kind of input for a JAAS LoginModule, but username/password
at least covers the majority. It actually _is_ possible to support any
LoginModule, but you would have to supply your clients with your own way
to authenticate to it and write a strategy for telling the OpenEJB
client what data to send to the server with each invocation request. See
the
http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/security/jaas/JAASLMDevGuide.html[JAAS
LoginModule Developer's Guide] for more information.
* _Client IdentityResolver_. This is the just mentioned interface you
would have to implement to supply the OpenEJB client with alternate data
to send to the server with each invocation request. If you're plugging
in a new version of this it is likely that you may also want to plugin
in your own SecurityService implementation. Reason being, the object
returned from IdentiyResolve.getIdentity() is sent across the wire and
straight in to the SecurityService.associate(Object) method.
