# Spring
:index-group: Spring
:jbake-date: 2018-12-05
:jbake-type: page
:jbake-status: published

\{note} This document and the related feature is considered a prototype
and will change based on user feedback. All comments suggestions
welcome. \{note}

# Introduction

The OpenEJB Spring integration makes all Spring defined beans injectable
to Java EE components, and all Java EE components can be injected to
Spring beans. The injection system supports arbitrarily complex nesting
(e.g., Spring bean injected into a Java EE component, which is then
injected into another Spring bean), including:

* @Resouce injection of any Spring bean into EJB
* Injection of any Java EE resource into a Spring bean, including: **
EJB 3.0 beans ** EJB 3.1 Singleton Bean ** JDBC Connector ** JMS
Connector ** JMS Queue and Topic ** Generic Java EE Connector (JCA)

In addition, the OpenEJB Spring integration add support for discovery
and deployment of standard Java EE packages within a Spring context,
including:

* EAR
* EJB Jar
* Persistence Unit
* RAR

_Requirements:_ * OpenEJB 3.1+ * Spring X.X * Java 1.5 or 1.6

# Spring Beans

The following beans are usable in any spring xml file.

Class

Description

org.apache.openejb.spring.ClassPathApplication

Scrapes the classpath for all EJB, RAR, and Persistence applications,
deploys them, and imports them into the current ApplicationContext. All
applications found are treated as one big EAR unless the
_classpathAsEar_ property is set to _false_

org.apache.openejb.spring.Application

Scrapes an individual jar file for EJB, RAR, and Persistence
applications, deploys them, and imports them into the current
ApplicationContext. The 'jarFile' property is required. The application
is treated as it's own self-contained EAR, separate from other uses of
'Application'

org.apache.openejb.spring.Resource

Allows an OpenEJB to be declared in the Spring ApplicationContext

org.apache.openejb.spring.OpenEJBResource

A FactoryBean that imports a Resource from OpenEJB into the Spring
ApplicationContext. Has the following properties: _type_ such as
javax.sql.DataSource, and _resourceId_. In the future this bean will not
be required and all OpenEJB Resources will automatically be imported
into the Spring ApplicationContext

org.apache.openejb.spring.BmpContainer

Allows an OpenEJB BMP to be declared in the Spring ApplicationContext.
Has the following properties: _poolSize_

org.apache.openejb.spring.CmpContainer

Allows an OpenEJB CMP to be declared in the Spring ApplicationContext.

org.apache.openejb.spring.SingletonContainer

Allows an OpenEJB Singleton to be declared in the Spring
ApplicationContext. Has the following properties: _accessTimeout_

org.apache.openejb.spring.StatefulContainer

Allows an OpenEJB Stateful to be declared in the Spring
ApplicationContext. Has the following properties: _timeOut_

org.apache.openejb.spring.StatelessContainer

Allows an OpenEJB Stateful to be declared in the Spring
ApplicationContext. Has the following properties: _timeOut_, _poolSize_,
and _strictPooling_

org.apache.openejb.spring.MdbContainer

Allows an OpenEJB Message-Driven to be declared in the Spring
ApplicationContext. Has the following properties: _resourceAdapter_,
_messageListenerInterface_, _activationSpecClass_, and _instanceLimit_

org.apache.openejb.spring.EJB

A FactoryBean that imports an EJB from OpenEJB into the Spring
ApplicationContext. One of these is automatically created for each
interface of each EJB, but explicit use can be nice if you desire to
import an EJB with a specific name. Has the following properties:
_deploymentId_, _interface_

# Examples

See the link:spring-ejb-and-jpa.html[Spring EJB and JPA] page for
example code and a working Spring xml file.

# \{anchor:problems} Problems?

If you are having problems with the installation, please send a message
to the OpenEJB users link:mailing-lists.html[mailing list] containing
any error message(s) and the following information:

* OpenEJB Version
* Spring Version
* Java Version (execute java -version)
* Operating System Type and Version

# Limitations

_JavaAgent_ - OpenEJB uses OpenJPA to provide JPA and CMP persistence,
and OpenJPA currently requires a JavaAgent to function properly in a
Java 1.5 environment. OpenJPA does not require a JavaAgent in Java 1.6.
Use Hibernate as your the provider in your persistence.xml files if you
wish to avoid this requirement.

_EntityManager_ - Having an OpenEJB created EntityManager or
EntityManagerFactory injected into Spring beans is currently not
supported. This will be added to the next release. A small workaround
for this is to use an EJB as a factory by adding a 'getEntityManager'
method an using it as a
http://static.springframework.org/spring/docs/2.5.x/reference/beans.html#beans-factory-class-instance-factory-method[Spring
instance factory method] .
