# TomEE and Intellij
:index-group: IDE
:jbake-date: 2018-12-05
:jbake-type: page
:jbake-status: published

NOTE: Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF)
under one or more contributor license agreements. See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information regarding
copyright ownership. The ASF licenses this file to you under the Apache
License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except
in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
. http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 . Unless required by
applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the
License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR
CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for
the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the
License.

Intellij is the preferred editor of most of the developers on Apache
TomEE. It's fast and light and goes out of its way to guess what you're
thinking and act accordingly in efforts to save you time and increase
your enjoyment. In this regard TomEE and Intellij have a lot in common.

While TomEE works with most IDEs via the Tomcat adapter and this covers
WAR files, JetBrains has stepped up to the plate with a TomEE specific
adapter to allow deployment of the full range of archives that TomEE
supports. The evolving TomEE/Intellij integration sets the pace for all
other IDE integrations.
http://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issues/IDEA[Feature requests very
welcome!] TomEE is to Intellij what GlassFish is to NetBeans and your
feedback is a critcal part of that.

== Getting Started

We will use one of the existing
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/tomee/tomee/trunk/examples/[examples]
for this demo. Let's import it.
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_01.png[alt
text]
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_02.png[alt
text]
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_03.png[alt
text]

Give a minute while Intellij imports the dependencies.
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_04.png[alt
text]

It's time to run the application. Open "Edit Configurations".
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_05.png[alt
text]

Click the "+" icon and select "TomEE Server" and "Local".
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_06.png[alt
text]

If your server is still not configured, click the "Configure" button and
point it to your local TomEE installation.
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_07.png[alt
text]

If you see a warning message like "No artifacts marked for deployment",
click the "Fix" button and select one of the options.
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_08.png[alt
text]

You can change the "Application Context".
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_09.png[alt
text]

Now you can run it. Click the "play" button.
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_10.png[alt
text]
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_11.png[alt
text]

Your application is up and running.
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_12.png[alt
text]
image:http://people.apache.org/~tveronezi/tomee/tomee_site/intellij_integration/windows8_13.png[alt
text]
